---
title: "New Blog"
date: "2021-12-13T18:09:46-05:00"
summary: "Decided to start another blog catered to programming."
draft: false
tags: ["general"]
type: post
showTableOfContents: false
---

So, I decided to create another one. Another blog that is. Figured it'd
be good to separate different hats on different platforms. The idea 
behind this one is my journey while I learn different programming 
languages and concepts. I've done some of it to solve problems for CTFs
in my other blog [n3s0 || info](https://n3s0.gitlab.io/). Though, I 
thought maybe it'd be best to make that into it's own little niche. 
There are some CTFs I've played on there along with some sysadmin stuff.
I may program to solve problems on it. But, those are generally small 
scripts. They don't solve problems long term. It's where I will house a
lot of my "Hacking", Administration, Blue Teaming, etc.

The name will probably be changed to something that keeps it in its 
niche. But, I haven't quite figured that out yet. Doing one thing at a 
time right now.

The other site will be useful for complimenting this one. It's where I 
work out how to deploy applications and the like. If there's something 
that could benefit an article on it. I'll provide a link.

This site will house me working through programming concepts. Stuff like
different languages, basic programming concepts, software security, 
things that I find interesting about the behavior of certain languages,
and more. I'm sure I'll find stuff to write about.

Another reason for this is to showcase my projects. If I'm proud of 
something I've written to solve a problem in my life or begin 
collaborating on a project with someone. I'll add it to the 
[projects](/projects/) link. Which will be a list of projects I've 
worked on or contributed to. I will make sure the source code is 
readily available on Github or GitLab before I add the application to 
the list.

Biggest part of this is for my own general amusement. I enjoy writing 
software. Always have. I enjoy writing down my thoughts, also. Keeps my
head clear and provides future reference. There will be some fact and 
some opinion. If the facts aren't up to par, you're more than welcome to
provide input. You may email me or submit an issue in the repository if
it's referencing the code I'm writing about. You're also more than 
welcome to discuss typos too. I do love me a good proof read.

This site was built using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). Which I 
honestly didn't think of myself doing. I tried it for a little while in
the past but then moved over to Hugo because it was just easier. Jekyll
isn't hard, per se. But, you know. I'm lazy. Who doesn't like a one 
liner command that will create a new page or post for you. But, learning
how Jekyll works and how to deploy it is beneficial.

The Jekyll theme I'm using is named 
[minimal-mistakes](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes). That
is the Github link. I certainly enjoy the layout and the overall feel. 
One project might be porting the theme over to Hugo so that community 
can use it. But, I fear I'm a long ways away before I start porting the
theme to a different platform. Figured I'd deploy it as a Jekyll 
application as a reminder. Nothing against Jekyll. I just enjoy using 
one tool to do the job. Jekyll is an awesome framework for static site 
building. I'll probably be releasing my notes for installing Jekyll on 
my laptop to [n3s0 || info](https://n3s0.gitlab.io/) at some point.

Please note that the two blogs will be complimenting each other. Though 
they don't look the same. References will be made that will take you to
the other one. Not sure why I'm reexplaining this. But, there you go.

Without further ado. I hope you enjoy the content that is to come. 
Thank you.

