---
title: '04-25-2021 - Some Updates To The Site'
date: 2021-04-25T00:30:26-06:00
summary: "Notes on some updates to this site. Had some issues with the gitlab-ci.yml file so it didn't deploy as expected."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

## Summary
---

I had to make some changes to the site. I messed up a few things. So, I decided to reconfigure and redeploy. Not everything went as expected. But, site is back up and working now. This goes over that experience a little.

## Fun Stuff
---

Now that you can host your own container registry, you can use the hugo container repository for Pages. Which is pretty interesting. Below is the registry that’s being used for this blog.

Note: All of the articles that I’ve read have the wrong link to the container image for Hugo.

- ```registry.gitlab.com/pages/hugo/hugo:latest```

So, that’s working now. Which is great. Though, I did run into something interesting. Before I could just have clean themes directory and didn’t need to add the contents of the theme directory. Now I do. I will need to revisit this issue so it will actually pull the theme for hugo. Hopefully I will be able to find the correct solution to this so Pages will actually pull the latest version of the hermit theme every time.

Below is the error that I run into when I attempt to run the page. Will be reasearching the Pages functionality in Gitlab. Looks like some things have changed also.

```sh
Error: module "hermit" not found; either add it as a Hugo Module or store it in "/builds/n3s0/n3s0.gitlab.io/themes".: module does not exist
```

If I need to, I will move to a different platform. Mostly because I need to get started on that. Using a SaaS platform to host my site doesn’t seem to be the best way to maintain control of this blog. Gitlab could change their rules at anytime and this site would be down. I will need to noodle this a little. I have been meaning to start the process of hosting on a VPS and standing up a domain of my own.

This issue was fixed. Resolved it and never bothered to update the post. That’s my bad. Considering that I don’t know what resolved the issue. I If I were to guess. The issue was resolved by reconfiguring