---
title: 'Entry 10-02-2024'
date: 2024-10-02T07:49:01+06:00
summary: "Journal entry 10-02-2024"
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

## 07:23
---

I've decided to make a goals for myself related to this project, coding projects, and lab projects.

First goal is to make one useful commit a programming project a day. So, do one thing that could provide value to a project and push it to the code base. 

Second goal is 10 to 15 blog posts a month. 

Third is to learn a new concept, deploy software, design a network, design software, learn about new programing languages, etc. at least 5 times a quarter and write about it. 

It's something to aim for and to keep me hungry for finding new ways to optimize my workflow and learning new things.

I think I'll also get into the habit of reading for 20 to 30 minutes a day. 

## 19:11
---

First day of One Commit A Day is in the books.

Wrote a Python script that uses the Pandas library to look through two CSV files. One with a list of printers and the other with a list of subnets with labels. 

It compares the two CSV files and outputs the data to another. It's a nested for loop that iterate through a Pandas data frame and then iterates through another data frame to confirm some data. When it's finished it will output another CSV file with the data. 

Now I've also write my first blog entry for the goal as well. 

## 19:53
---

There are some things I'm going to start doing to improve some as far as programing is concerned. I think I'm going to walk through the basics of different languages in my notes as a reference. Then I'll branch out further into more advanced topics. 