---
title: 'New Blog'
date: 2019-04-01T16:49:01+06:00
summary: "Announcing the start of a new blog."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

## Overview
---

This is the first post for my new static blog. I am going to be moving all of my content to the Jekyll static site platform. I plan on using this site primarily for releasing the content in my notes and from my WordPress blog. I hope to have an opportunity to make this blog more visually appealing, but that isn’t always important. Those viewing the content will not be able to post comments. But, I will be proving a way to contact me with questions soon, email is also an option.

## Content
---

It will probably be a good idea to provide a little information about what content this site will contain. This is pretty broad, but the content that this site will contain are my notes on interests I have. As a general category, you can expect this site to contain my notes on tech. This includes CTFs, Linux, Windows, Programming, etc.

## Moving Away From Bloat
---

For those who would like to view the WordPress blog before all of the content is moved over, please use the link below. I am not the biggest fan of WordPress, never was. But you have to start on something. I get why people like WordPress, it’s pretty simple to use. There were a few downfalls for me though. One of those downfalls is in order to use the free account, your audience needs to put up with adds. Ain’t nobody got time for dat! I get it though, they are hosting the site and they need to make revenue off of my content some how. One of the biggest pitfalls is that it is messy and has a large number of security holes. Which should be the main reason why right?

- [TIM’S SECURITY BLOG](https://timssecurityblog.wordpress.com/)

## My GitLab Page
---

For those who would like to view the content on my GitLab, the link is below. This is where I will post the code for my projects and my dotfiles. I attempt to make the dotfiles as clean as possible and I plan on making a script that will automate the setup. This hasn’t been created yet though. But, I work with a large variety of distributions, so it will be fun. I should be releasing the code for my ctf-journal soon. The idea behind the ctf-journal is to have a script/application that will automate and explain how I have solved CTFs that I have attended. One thing that I plan on doing is putting a link for my dotfiles on this site. They aren’t riced to perfection though. I am not entirely in to that.

- [N3s0’s GitLab](https://gitlab.com/n3s0)

## About Me
---

I am writing a blog about my interests. Through the way I write about these interests should be enough for readers. I am not doing this to sell something, I am doing this to share knowledge on what I have learned. I am open to those who are willing to take a moment out of their day to give me their understanding on various topics. I will be open minded to your understanding of the subject. So please, send me an email to discuss, request, or as questions about topics that interest you.

## A Note on Pictures
---

I am not a fan of pictures. If I can avoid using pictures I will do so. Embedding images into posts doesn’t seem practical, when a majority of what I will be posting is text from a terminal. Pictures of GUI applications is another story though. But, taking a screen shot of your terminal when you could copy and paste it into a syntax highlighted code block in markdown? Oh you are missing out. This is a matter of opinion of course, I just think that it takes less time to copy and paste. As opposed to taking a screen shot and formatting the image so it fits your screen. This is mostly an explanation for those who have asked that I put in mostly pictures. The answer is no. Some say RTFM, I say that and RTFB.