---
title: 'Site Updates'
date: 2019-07-30T23:55:17+06:00
summary: "Notes on site updates."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

## Overview
---

Just a little overview. I’m going to discuss some of the site updates that I am putting together. This is just so users have something to go off of in case they need some explanation.

## Update on Site Design
---

The cosmetics of the site will remain the same. It will be using the Hermit theme. This is mostly because I like the way Hermit lays out tags. I will be using tags to organize navigation to posts. So, when you click on ```writeups``` it will just display a list of the posts based on the year they were released. This will also be the way tutorials are laid out.

On a server level, projects and posts will have their own folders. Writeups for CTFs and Wargames will be shown in the listed format (like explained) and projects will have a page that’ll show all of the projects in progress. Status updates to my projects will be available for viewing. I just have to write them.

Methodology will consist with moving back and forth between tagged lists and pages. This will all depend on whether or not a concept is best portrayed as just a page or a list of posts. Specific topics would be best portrayed as pages, such as the about page. Others can be either or, such as the projects page. Which can also be portrayed as a list. Best judgement will be made when making the choice to either of them.

## Tags
---

The Hermit theme used for this site provides a tagging feature. When you navigate to the tags in a URL, Hermit will provide a list of those posts separated by the year they were created.

At this time these are the tags being used and their definitions.

- pages: Static pages for initial content. Like about and todo.
- posts: Just random posts about my ideas and opinions.
- projects: Documents/documentation regarding my personal projects.
- writeups: Writeups that I post for CTFs, hack challenges, and wargames.
- tutorials: Tutorials written about various topics.