---
title: 'Some Ideas For Content'
date: 2022-03-04T15:20:10+06:00
summary: "Some casual noodling of thoughts."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

So, it’s been a while since I’ve just talked or thought “out loud”. But, it’s been about five years since I’ve been in school. So, I’m considering taking my notes from school and posting them on here.

This includes the assignments that I’ve completed, notes from the text books I still have, and personal labs I did in my spare time.

This is something they encouraged while I was in school. But, I didn’t think I’d need it. There are times I move back to that stuff for sure. But, I thought that since I was over and done with some of that stuff that I would never use it.

Textbooks will certainly need to be reread and notes taken. There are lots of things that I missed from when I would fall asleep reading them.

Case in point. There will be little data dumps on here that I provide from my school work back in the day. Should stuff be wrong inaccurate. I will fix the data and notate that I was being dumb and should have done better. A lot consisted of online labs with pictures.

Hopefully there isn’t too much in there that would be considered relevant to their programs today. I’ll need to make sure the notes cannot be used as a means for cheating.

But, considering the funding of some community collage IT programs, that is up for consideration. Not a whole lot of funding goes into that in some places. That or the money goes into other things within those programs. Generally speaking it should go into teaching students products that aren’t End of Life (EOL). Just a thought. Small little opinion. Students should be able to read documentation anyway. It’s not that hard.

Excuse the rambling, please. I’ve had five cups of coffee today. That is all. Thank you.