---
title: 'Entry 09-24-2024'
date: 2024-09-24T16:49:01+06:00
summary: "Journal entry 09-24-2024"
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["journal"]
---

## 15:50
---

Not sure if I've talked about this site before. But, this is wonderful for
wireless troubleshooting. Name is Wigle.net and it's used to importing 
war driving data and making it available to the public. Which isn't a bad
think.

- [wigle.net](https://wigle.net/)

With that being said there is a lot of information on this site. So, I'm
considering integrating with it's API for tool that will help with various
troubleshooting. It can be useful to see if there is an available BSSID
in an area or check the OUI for the BSSID to see what vendor it's for. SSID
names are generally set to defaults and those defaults have a tendancy of
providing vendor data for a wirless network. Plus, an exact location is
useful as well.

Enough rambling. There is is.

## 15:59
---

Learned a little bit about the Fortinet equivalent of hello/dead intervals
for BFD are transmit/detechtion intervals. Bidirectional Forwarding Detection
(BFD) is used to detect faults between two routers connected by a link.

- [Technical Tip: How FortiGate calculates BFD timers (Transmit Interval, Detection Time)](https://community.fortinet.com/t5/FortiGate/Technical-Tip-How-FortiGate-calculates-BFD-timers-Transmit/ta-p/277601)

Maybe this will be useful in the future. It's useful for failover that's for 
sure.

## 22:47
---

I'm considering branching out a little more as a netadmin. A majority of my experience is with vSphere vSwitching, Fortinet FortiGates, FortiSwitches, FortiAPs, Cisco Switches, OPNSense, pfsense, pf, etc. Mostly on-premises gear.

In fact. A majority of my work this week has been focused on wireless troubleshooting and tuning. So expect some stories and TIL stuff on that in the future. 

I normally don't touch cloud networking or container networking at all. So I think I should focus on learning and labbing on some of the common cloud platforms. Like Azure, AWS, Google Cloud, and Vultr sound like good places to start. 

Another good place to start for container networking would probably be docker, podman, keuberbetes, containerd, etc.

If I'm being honest. I'll probably dirct more toward cloud networking because I've seen cloud solutions given more use. I also plan on refreshing the basics as well.

During some reflection I've noticed that I'll need to dial in a little more on BGP troubleshooting and setup. Expect some articles on BGP and other routing protocols in the future. I'll expect some RFC reading out of myself. 

## 23:07
---

One thing I'm going to work through is researching a little more on tuning SMBv3 Linux clients/servers. Just to see what options there are to make it more performant.

## 23:19
---

Learned today that on smart phones you can press and hold the space bar to move the cursor in text fields. It definately works on one of my Samsung S24. I've only just recently learned about it and it's been a life saver. No more struggling with using my finger on the cursor to move the cursor. The more you know. 

## 23:24
---

Learned today that on some vehicle models the manufacturer is nice enough to put the part number for what looks to be the bulbs on the headlights at least. Need to confirm this for me personally. But, this could save me some time if I ever need to change out another bulb. Thanks Mike!

## 23:52
---

I've been reading a little bit and I'm considering writting a simple dead man's switch. I don't forsee anything happening in the near future. But, if something did. It might come of use some day. Dead Man Switches are mechanisms that send something out if you don't check in with it. Be that information, a message, etc. When you check in with it. The application will reset the seconds counter. Pushover and email warnings sound like a good idea too. Should be a fun coding project. 

I read an article from someone who made one in Rust. But, I think I'll build mine in Go. Then maybe Rust. Here is an article of someone's setup for one. 

- [Sherlock Holmes Final Letter: A Simple Dead Man's Switch in Rust](https://storopoli.io/2024-03-23-dead-man-switch/)