---
title: "PHH: Q4 Open Source Contribution Update"
date: "2024-10-04T09:51:01-06:00"
summary: "Summary for 2024 Q4 of my contributions to codebases and open source projects."
draft: true
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
invertPagination: true
showToC: true
openToC: false
showComments: false
showHeadingAnchors: true
tags: [ "code" ]
---

## Summary
---

Every quarter of the year I plan on notating my contributions to open 
source projects. I find on the Internet. Every contribution I make or 
attempt to make will be notated here as something to reference later to
review personal growth.

I plan on updating this throughout the quarter with various commits and
other open source contributions.

I will not include my own projects unless it's a significant update or
provides a positive impact to everyone else within the comunity. That is
what I will use the project documentation and change logs for.

## 4th Quarter Updates
---

### 10/03/2024: BinaryDefense/artillery
---

Made my first ever pull request to open source software last night. I 
fixed some syntax errors for 
[BinaryDefense/artillery](https://github.com/BinaryDefense/artillery/) 
repository in a fork on my Github.

Some back story. I was playing around with the project because I wanted
to go back to a previous post [here](https://www.n3s0.tech/notes/20190418041617/)
to see if it aged well. There are some issues that need to be fixed
before I release an updated article. But, the jist is. It worked pretty
well. It didn't even fail when the warnings happened.

Below is my fork of the repository. I'll push more patches as time goes
on if I find them.

- [n3s0/artillery](https://github.com/n3s0/artillery)

Here is a little overview of the warnings uncovered by playing with the
software.

First, the following warning came up.

```sh
I'll provide warnings/errors soon.
```

Which has been fixed by the following diff.

```diff

```

This is the second error that was fixed.

```sh
I'll provide warnings/errors soon.
```

Which I fixed with the following diff for the src/core.py file.

```diff

```

I updated my fork of the project in branch 
[patch-1](https://github.com/n3s0/artillery/tree/patch-1) and submitted
the following pull request.

- [BinaryDefense/artillery -  Fix Syntax #117](https://github.com/BinaryDefense/artillery/pull/117)

I could probably do a better job writing commit messages to be honest.

Come to find out that part of my fix was also in a previous pull request 
by Wafffle77 on the src/core.py file that was never applied. I'll need
to be more mindful of looking at the Issues and current push requests 
to projects as I look at them. Looks like the master branch hasn't been 
updated since 2020. So, it's safe to say the project has been abandoned 
for now. That or Dave has been extremely busy.

Sorry Wafffle77. I'll be more observant next time. Going to leave my 
Pull request up there anyway.