---
title: "Blue Team Labs Online - Incident Response"
description: "Notes for Blue Team Labs Online from the Incident Response category."
date: 2021-07-30T21:28:46-05:00
draft: true
---

## Overview

This is my writeup for the Incident Response category on the platform Blue Team Labs Online.

At this time I will be doing the Free Tier challenges.

## ATT&CK

### Scenario

You are hired as a Blue Team member for a company. You are assigned to perform threat intelligence for the company. See how you can operationalize the MITRE ATT&CK framework to solve these scenario-based problems.

### Challenge Submission

1. Your company heavily relies on cloud services like Azure AD, and Office 365 publicly. What technique should you focus on mitigating, to prevent an attacker performing Discovery activities if they have obtained valid credentials? (Hint: Not using an API to interact with the cloud environment!)
2. You were analyzing a log and found uncommon data flow on port 4050. What APT group might this be?
3. The framework has a list of 9 techniques that falls under the tactic to try to get into your network. What is the tactic ID?
4. A software prohibits users from accessing their account by deleting, locking the user account, changing password etc. What such software has been documented by the framework?
5. Using ‘Pass the Hash’ technique to enter and control remote systems on a network is common. How would you detect it in your company?

## Browser Forensics - Cryptominer

### Scenario

Our SOC alerted that there is some traffic related to crypto mining from a PC that was just joined to the network. The incident response team acted immediately, observed that the traffic is originating from browser applications. After collecting all key browser data using FTK Imager, it is your job to use the ad1 file to investigate the crypto mining activity.

### Challenge Submission

Before beginning the challenge I needed to download file associated with it.

1. How many browser-profiles are present in Google Chrome?
2. What is the name of the browser theme installed on Google Chrome?
3. Identify the Extension ID and Extension Name of the cryptominer
4. What is the description text of this extension?
5. What is the name of the specific javascript web miner used in the browser extension? 
6. How many hashes is the crypto miner calculating per second?
7. What is the public key associated with this mining activity?
8. What is the URL of the official Twitter page of the javascript web miner?

## Log Analysis - Compromised WordPress

### Scenario

One of our WordPress sites has been compromised but we're currently unsure how. The primary hypothesis is that an installed plugin was vulnerable to a remote code execution vulnerability which gave an attacker access to the underlying operating system of the server.

### Challenge Submission

Before beginning the challange I needed to download the file associated with it.

1. Identify the URI of the admin login panel that the attacker gained access to (include the token)
2. Can you find two tools the attacker used?
3. The attacker tried to exploit a vulnerability in ‘Contact Form 7’. What CVE was the plugin vulnerable to? (Do some research!)
4. What plugin was exploited to get access?
5. What is the name of the PHP web shell file?
6. What was the HTTP response code provided when the web shell was accessed for the final time?
