---
title: "Blue Team Labs Online - Investigations - Deep Blue"
description: "Notes from the Blue Team Labs Online investigation Deep Blue."
date: 2021-07-30T21:29:15-05:00
draft: true
tags:
    - btlo
    - writeups
    - incident-response
---

## Overview

## S

A Windows workstation was recently compromised, and evidence suggests it was an attack against internet-facing RDP, then Meterpreter was deployed to conduct 'Actions on Objectives'. Can you verify these findings? 

You have been provided with the Security.evtx and System.evtx log exports from the compromised system - you should analyze these, NOT the Windows logs generated by the lab machine (when using DeepBlueCLI ensure you're providing the path to these files, stored inside \Desktop\Investigation\.

Reading Material:
https://github.com/sans-blue-team/DeepBlueCLI

### Investigation Submission

1. Using DeepBlueCLI, investigate the recovered Security log (Security.evtx). Which user account ran GoogleUpdate.exe? (4 points)
2. Using DeepBlueCLI investigate the recovered Security.evtx log. At what time is there likely evidence of Meterpreter activity? (4 points)
3. Using DeepBlueCLI investigate the recovered System.evtx log. What is the name of the suspicious service created? (5 points)
4. Investigate the Security.evtx log in Event Viewer. Process creation is being audited (event ID 4688). Identify the malicious executable downloaded that was used to gain a Meterpreter reverse shell, between 10:30 and 10:50 AM on the 10th of April 2021. (4 points)
5. It's also believed that an additional account was created to ensure persistence between 11:25 AM and 11:40 AM on the 10th April 2021. What was the command line used to create this account? (4 points)
6. What two local groups was this new account added to?

