---
title: "Network Design: The Usual Home Network Design"
date: "YYYY-MM-DD"
classes: "wide"
draft: true
excerpt: ""
categories:
- "posts"
tags:
- "posts"
---
---
title: "New Blog"
date: "2019-04-01T03:54:12-05:00"
description: "Announcing the start of a new blog."
draft: false
tags: [ "general" ]
type: post
showTableOfContents: false
---
## Summary

This post will discuss the general home network design that anyone who
doesn't care to take the time to look into subnetting, segmenting, etc.
on their home network. This is the bare minimum of network(s) design
that I regularly see in the homes I've visited.

Although it may seem lazy to hobbyists. It's really just practical for
the general public to just stick with the defaults on the router or
mixed router/modem or router and modem setups provided by their ISPs.
Being that those defaults aren't shrouded in a shadow of minor insanity.

I will be giving some opinions. Yes. But, I'll also be going through the
current state of home networks where little to no configuration has been
had. Just merely jotting down observations. I'll also discuss the design
of "What has been given to me".

## Some Opinions

Might actually put this into it's own post to be honest.

Here are some opinions whether we want to hear them or not. Sorry. If
you're triggered or if you agree. Lets talk about it. Like I said. These
are opinions. Some professional. Some not. I don't expect people to
agree and it doesn't prevent me from hearing yours.

The parts I can't help but poke at are where the general public will
just live with the configuration they are given by the ISP. Maybe
configure a fun SSID and set it's WPA2 Key to their PlayStation Network
handle or dog's name.

Some examples of things I've heard or read.

"As long as I have Internet connectivity. Who cares, right?"

"
