---
title: "Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows - Workstation Disk Migration"
date: "2022-06-22"
classes: "wide"
excerpt: "Notes for using the Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows to migrate a workstation to another disk."
draft: true
categories:
- "posts"
tags:
- "posts"
- "Veeam"
- "migration"
---

## Summary

Some notes from performing a disk migration using Veeam's free Veeam Windows Agent.

Before creating a recovery media. You'll want to make sure all drivers are up to date on the PC.

Process consists of a few parts.

1. Installing the Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows.
2. Setup Backup Target.
3. Create Recovery Media.
4. Backup the PC to the backup target.
5. Power off the PC.
6. Replace the disk in the PC with the new disk and reassemble.
7. Plug in the Veeam Recovery Media.
8. Boot the PC to the Veeam Recovery Media.
9. Recover the machine to the new disk.
10. Verify that the machine still functions as expected.

## What Is Needed

1. External Media that is larger than the currently installed disk.
2. The new media that is either the same size or lager than the disk that is currently in the workstation.
3. Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows installer.

## Preparation

Download and install the Veeam Windows Agent on the computer. This will require account creation with Veeam.

## Install Veeam Agent

1. Run the installer.
2. Check the boxes for the Veeam License Agreement and the 3rd party components license agreements.
3. Click Install.

## Create Recovery Media

There are two methods for this. An ISO file can be created or it can be applied directly to a flash drive.

### ISO Recovery Media

This section goes through setting up the 

1. Open the Create Recovery Media application.
2. At the Recovery Media screen select Image with the type of ISO image file.
3. Click next.
4. Select the save path.
5. Click next.
6. Click Create.
7. Wait for the progress to hit complete.
8. Click Finish.

Wait for it to be created.

### Flash Drive Recovery Media

1. Open the Create Recovery Media application.
2. At the Recovery Media screen select the name of the drive.
3. Window will popup stating that the drive will be formatted. Best to be sure that there isn't anything needed on the drive before proceeding. Proceed if certain there isn't anything needed on it. Click Yes.
4. There will be a brief summary at the Ready to Apply portion.
5. Click Create.
6. Wait for the progress to hit complete.
7. Click Finish.

## Create The Backup Job

1. Open Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows.
2. In the upper left-hand side. Click the Hamburger Button.
3. Click "Add New Job..."

## Shutdown The Machine

## Replace the drive

## Boot To Veeam Recovery Media

Before proceeding. We'll want to make sure the backup target and the Recovery Media is plugged in. Note that the previous section stated that we unplugged all media before swapping out the hard drive. Well, now it's time to plug everything back in. This is includes power or charging cables also.

We'll also want to consult the manual for the desktop or laptop. Searching on Duck Duck Go is a good choice for this. Depending on the machine. We'll need to spam a key as the machine is booting up to boot to the One Time Boot Menu for the device.

We'll want to make sure that there isn't anything preventing the machine from booting to anything in the BIOS. Choose the method you have decided to boot to in the list of options. Might be ideal to know what device you're actually using because you don't want to boot from the target media.

## Recover Disk From Veeam Recovery Media

In this section. We should be at a green screen that says Veeam Recovery Media and a version number.

There should be three options available.

- Bare Metal Recovery
- Windows Recovery Environment
- Tools

In this case we will choose the Bare Metal Recovery option to do a full restore of the disk. This will allow us to perform a Volume Level Restore.

1. At the Backup Location portion Local Storage should automatically be selected. This is automatically populated from the job settings that were pulled over from creating the recovery media. Though, you always want to verify  the path. If everything is correct. Like it has the correct path, Operating System, Backup Taken setting, and Volumes. Then everything should be peachy. Verify the information. If things aren't correct either browse for the correct path of the backup. Another thing we can do is verify that the backup target is plugged in. If not, plug it in and browse. If everything looks good. We can proceed.
2. Click Next.
3. Should be at the Restore Point section. Specifically, "Select desired restore point". This will provide the computer name, disk, Windows version, and the name of the restore point. Pick the latest restore point.
4. Click Next.
5. Now we will be at the "Specify a restore mode" section. There should be three options. The one we want to choose for this scenario is "Entire Computer" because we're restoring the entire computer. There is one use case for the "Manual restore (advanced)" option. But, I'll go over that later.
6. Click Next.
7. Go through the summary on the next page.
8. Let the disk perform the copy of all of the drives to the new disk. Wait for it to complete copying all of the volumes and data.
9. Click Finish.
10. Restore has been completed. Reboot computer now? Click Yes.

## Troubleshooting

Some useful troubleshooting tips to things that I've run into while 
doing this on a regular basis.

### Touchpad Issues In Recovery Environment

If the touchpad isn't working in the recovery environment. Plug in a 
wired mouse or use the TAB and/or SHIFT+TAB to move around in the 
windows and press ENTER when you wish to choose something.
