---
title: "Homework Help - Assignment "
date: "2022-05-08"
classes: "wide"
excerpt: "Provided assistance related to a students Python programming homework. Provided are my solutions."
draft: true
categories:
- "Homework Help"
tags:
- "python"
- "homework"
- "assignment"
---

## Summary

Got bored. So, I decided to do some more of these assignments. This one
was pulled from Reddit with a title that says "i need help with my
python homework!!". Man. Two exclamation points. This must be serious.

The post was from 11 months ago. So, it's probably safe to do it and not
tell anyone about it. I looked through this and figured it would be a
very interesting project. I've never looked into building software that
would allow me to gamble. Sounds like a great time.

## Assignment

OK so i was assigned to make a game of chance and i am really 
struggling on it my teacher doesn't know python and i am having a 
headache about what to do please can someone help!

What I'm supposed to do:

Game of Chance

1. A user can bet on any number from 0 to 30.
2. If it’s an even number they 2x their money back.
3. If it’s a multiple of 10 they get 3x their money back.
4. If it’s a prime number they
5. get 5x their money back.
6. If the number is below 5 they get a 2x bonus.

Create a program that allows the user to guess a number. A random 
number is generated. If the guess == the random number then the user 
wins and gets a pay-out. Combinations of the win scenarios should be 
catered for.. e.g. 20 wins 2 x 3 bonus = 6x their money.

Extension:

- Develop your program to allow a user to enter the amount they want to
  place for that bet, and work out the resulting pay-out
- Develop your program to store the user’s current balance and stop 
  them from betting if they have no money left
- Develop your program to finally incorporate validation so that they 
  cannot enter into a negative about of cash ever, and that a bet 
  should be between 1 and 10 units of currency
- Develop your program to allow multiple bets on different numbers

TLDR: student needs help and tips for homework which is a python coding
project which is to design a betting game where users input a betting 
amount and guess a random number if they guess the number and its in one 
of those reward conditions (mentioned above) their bet money increases.

Please give me some tips on answering this, thank you.
