---
title: "Facebook Help: Python - Project 1 - Even or Odd List Iteration"
date: "2022-06-15T22:40:28-05:00"
description: "Notes from when I provided assistance to someone on Facebook with a small Python project."
tags: [ "python", "Facebook Code Help" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Summary

Every once in a while I like to browse through a few Facebook groups and
assist people that need help with their code. Generally doesn't matter
if I'm able to assist them right away. I'll go through the comments and
assist them if the code still isn't working.

The description from the post of the user asking the question can be
found below. Just to provide context. 

_Hello guys how can I finish this code by using for loop and iterating
each number weather it's even or odd. Note I don't want do this code by
using map._

The code they provide can be found in the next section. I want to be
clear that these posts aren't intended to belittle anyone. These are
just intended to iron out what I've learned and see who may benefit from
this in the future.

## Facebook Users Code

Below is their code. There are some things going on with it that should
probably be pointed out. Just some tips.

1. When you iterate through a list or anything. You don't want to
   use the list we're iterating through as a value for the return. We
   want to utilize the item we're currently on. Not returning the
   current iteration of the list will provide unexplained results
   because it's not returning the result of the operation. Rather it's
   returning the actual list or number the operation it's being
   performed on.
2. This function should be designed to perform a specific task. In this
   case they're attempting to obtain the result of whether a number is
   even or odd. But, they're also acting under the assumption that a
   list of numbers will be passed into the function every time. Which is
   something that we should probably never assume. But, there is a
   potential that it could happen or may be needed.

Some more explanation can be provided at the output portion of these
notes.

```python
def even_or_odd(a):
  for num in a:
    if a % 2 == 0:
      return 'a is {} even'.format(a)
    else:
      return 'a is {} odd'.format(a)

print(even_or_odd(list[1,2,3,4,5]))
```

This is the output from their code when you attempt to run it. Note,
that I don't have any idea of which Python version this individual is
using.

First of all we get a TypeError. Considering that they aren't requesting
user Input we can't dynamically put this into a list. Should probably be
added to a variable or be generated from user input. There are a lot of
things to explain as to where the code has gone wrong. This person is
learning. The simplest answer to this error is that it doesn't follow
the PEP 585 standard.

```sh
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/example/code/python/testing/fbh1/fbh1.py", line 8, in <module>
    print(even_or_odd(list[1,2,3,4,5]))
  File "/home/example/code/python/testing/fbh1/fbh1.py", line 2, in even_or_odd
    for num in a:
TypeError: 'types.GenericAlias' object is not iterable
```

It may be best to rewrite the code above. Instead of attempting to fix
it. Remove a few things like the loop from the function and perform the 
iteration outside of it. There was no request for user input. So, I
won't assume that it's required.

## Fixed Code

The fixed code is below. I will explain it a little.

1. Created a list variable named numbersList and added numbers 1 through
   6 to it.
2. Created a function that you pass the num parameter into. The num
   parameter is then used in the if else statements to determine if it's
   odd or even. Checks to see if there is a remainder of zero when it's
   divided by two. If it is, it will output as even. If it's not zero.
   It will output as odd.
3. Iterate through the numbersList variable and print the output with
   the print function returned from the EvenOrOdd() function.

```python
"""
file: even_or_odd.py
author: Timothy (n3s0)
date: 06/15/2022
"""

# List of numbers to check.
numbersList = [1,2,3,4,5,6]

def EvenOrOdd(num):
    """
    Check and return if the number is even or odd.
    """
    if num % 2 == 0:
        return "Number {} is even!".format(num)
    else:
        return "Number {} is odd!".format(num)

# Iterate through all the numbers in the list
# Call EvenOrOdd() on each iteration
for n in numbersList:
    print(EvenOrOdd(n))

```

Should be able to run the code using the following command after
creating the file. Make sure Python is installed on the workstation
you're on first.

```sh
python even_or_odd.py
```

Below is the output from the code. As we can see, it provides the
desired output for this operation. The script iterates through the list
of numbers and outputs if their an even or odd number.

```sh
Number 1 is odd!
Number 2 is even!
Number 3 is odd!
Number 4 is even!
Number 5 is odd!
Number 6 is even!
```

## Conclusion

Wasn't able to provide my full answer to them in the end. I don't
believe the admins of the group approved my initial comment so I could
get that conversation started. But, there you go. There is the code and
it works.

Of course if there are any questions. Anyone is welcome to send me an
email.
