---
title: "Some Fun With Date and Get-Date For File Generation"
date: 2021-07-26T11:04:10-05:00
draft: false
description: "Describes the standard for filenames in this blog."
tags: ["shell","powershell","hugo"]
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Overview

Just going through an overview of how posts are named on this site. Meaning 
the file name. This is mostly for my own benefit. But, if it helps others 
organize their own sites, cool beans.

The site names the file names for posts using the date and time in the 
format ```"%Y%m%d%H%M%S"```. This is so I don't have any duplicates. I 
will admit, this is a random post. This will not provide any other 
explaination to justify why other than I like it this way. It's managable 
for now.

Granted, I will go over how to obtain date and time through PowerShell 
and Bash with Hugo.

## PowerShell - Date/Time

To obtain date/time using PowerShell on Windows I'll use the ```Get-Date``` 
cmdlet. This is easy to use and it's built in. Don't need to install any 
modules for it.

Command can be found below. This will get the date/time and output it 
using Unix formatting.

```powershell
Get-Date -UFormat "%Y%m%d%H%M%S"
```

### PowerShell/Hugo - Date/Time While Creating A New Post

The command below will create a new hugo post in the format that I have 
designated in the Overview. This will do the trick in PowerShell on Windows. 

Hugo generally uses Markdown so I added the little file extension to 
remove any confusion regarding file formatting.

You'll need to be in your Hugo site if you want this command to work as 
expected.

```powershell
hugo new .\content\posts\$(Get-Date -UFormat "%Y%m%d%H%M%S").md
```

## Bash - Date/Time

For Bash on Linux, obtaining the date/time is slightly different in regards 
to how it's formatted. But, the command does what it needs to for the scope 
of this article.

The command below will output the date and the time in the format specified 
in the Overview.

```bash
date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%S"
```

## Bash/Hugo - Date/Time Wile Creating A New Post

You do the same in Bash using Hugo as you would in PowerShell. Provided 
there isn't any weirdness. Follows the standardized format for posts on 
this site.

You'll need to be in your Hugo site if you want this command to work as 
expected.

```bash
hugo new ./content/posts/$(date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%S").md
```

## So What Does It Output To?

Well, of the general commands will output to the following.

```
20210726110410
```

The Hugo commands will tell you that it created a file in the path that you 
specified. I would recommend updating your path should you not create 
posts in the same way that I do.

## Conclusion

There you have it. Some of the ways that I create content. This will be 
a good reference should I need to remember this in the futures. Sometimes 
I go without posting for months and have to remember the commands. 

Hope everyone has a wonderful day. Cheers!
