---
title: "Ruby 3.0 Installation On OpenBSD" 
date: "2021-12-17T00:23:26-05:00"
description: "Notes for installing Ruby 3.0 on OpenBSD 7.0."
draft: false
tags: ["openbsd", "ruby", "install"]
type: post
showTableOfContents: false
---

## Overview

This post goes through installing Ruby 3.0 on OpenBSD 7.0-current. This 
is here for reference so it's easier in the future. Should there be changes 
to the ruby30 package, I will create another post for it.

Note that when you install packages, you will need to do so with elevated 
privileges. You can utilize doas(1); assuming you have it configured, or 
you can use su(1) and type in your root password to do so.

Also note that we're talking about a project that's frequently developed. 
The method for installation could change at any time. Should this need 
to be updated, there will be a post with the new method that works.

As always, if I find any errors or if I am informed of errors, I will 
fix them.

## Installing ruby30

To install Ruby on OpenBSD, you need to 

First, need to make sure packages are up to date.

```sh
pkg_add -u
```

Second, install the ruby package. This can be done in multiple ways. 
Currently, there are versions of Ruby. These include ```ruby-2.7.5p0``` 
and ```ruby-3.0.3p0``` which can beinstalled by replacing ```ruby%3.0``` 
with ```ruby``` in the following command. I bypass the ambiguities behavior 
using the first method. Otherwise, I would have to choose option 2.

All of this information regarding this behavior in pkg_add(1) can be found in 
its man page.

Below is the commnd I use to install ruby30.

```sh
pkg_add ruby%3.0
```

When ruby is finished installing, there are some things needed before it 
works properly. If ruby30 is the desired version of Ruby, symbolic links 
will need to be created so; for example, ```ruby``` opposed to ```ruby30```. 
This is more so for new users that may not know. OpenBSD does a pretty good 
job at providing needed configuration in the output after the install.

The following commands are provided when the installation process is 
completed. As explained above, these commands create a symbolic link for 
the ruby30 executable. To do this, use the ln(1) command.

Note the commands need to ran as an elevated user.

```sh
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/ruby30 /usr/local/bin/ruby
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/erb30 /usr/local/bin/erb
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/irb30 /usr/local/bin/irb
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/rdoc30 /usr/local/bin/racc
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/rdoc30 /usr/local/bin/rdoc
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/rdoc30 /usr/local/bin/rbs
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/ri30 /usr/local/bin/ri
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/rake30 /usr/local/bin/rake
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/gem30 /usr/local/bin/gem
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/bundle30 /usr/local/bin/bundle
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/bundler30 /usr/local/bin/bundler
ln -sf /usr/local/bin/typeprof30 /usr/local/bin/typeprof
```

When that's done, add the ```.gem``` directory located in the users $HOME 
directory to their PATH. If they'll need to program or run Ruby applications 
on the machine it's being run on. This is the short and sweet version so Ruby 
gems can be installed in the current users home directory.

I recommend that if users need to use Ruby regularly, that this addition to 
the PATH is added to the rc file for the shell they use. I currently use 
zsh(1). So, I added this to my ```.zshrc``` file.

```sh
export PATH=$HOME/.gem/ruby/3.0/bin:$PATH
```

Now finally, installation for Ruby 3.0 is complete. The version of Ruby 
has been provided below to show that it's installed.

```sh
ruby -v
ruby 3.0.3p157 (2021-11-24 revision 3fb7d2cadc) [x86_64-openbsd]
```

One thing I would like to mention that if gems are installed for users, 
there may be some configuration required for those gems. Symbolic links 
may need to be created for the gem. This is generally dependant on how 
many flavors the gem has. It's simple. Create the symbolic link and make 
sure the symbolic link doesn't have the gem version appended at the end.
