---
title: "When Printing Freezes Google Chrome"
date: 2021-04-07T13:54:43-06:00
summary: "Notes for troubleshooting Google Chrome when printing causes it to freeze."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["sysadmin"]
---

## Overview
---

This article goes over the process of resolving an issue with Google 
Chrome. This is something that seems to happen with any version of Google 
Chrome. Doesn't matter if it's the latest version. This is where Google 
Chrome will take an unbelievable amount of time to load the Preview of 
the document you're attempting to print.

In some cases, this will occur for all users and in others it wont. But, 
the result is rather noticable. You will notice that the users printers 
in "Printers & Scanners" work just fine. Printing will also work just fine 
in Microsoft Word and Excel.

I have not yet narrowed down which update did this.

I have had discussions amounst peers and read articles. So far the only 
reason that comes to mind is when Google Chrome updated once; or every 
time, it didn't remove the previous Preferences file for the application. 
So, you have to do the following.

1. Reset Google Chrome.
2. Close Google Chrome.
3. Delete the default Preferences file in your user's AppData Local directory.
4. Open up Google Chrome and see if the issue reoccurs.

Below will be the process for doing the above with the exception to 
"Closing Google Chrome".

## Solution
---

### Reset Google Chrome
---

Google Chrome should be open to complete this.

1. Click the Menu button > Settings.
2. Click Advanced > Reset and Clean up.
3. Click ```Restore settings to their original defaults```.
4. At ```Reset settings?```, click Reset settings.
  - Note: If you dont want to report current settings, uncheck ```Help make Chrome better by reporting the current settings```.
5. Close Google Chrome.

Once this is complete, move to the next section.

### Delete the AppData Local Chrome Preferences File
---

1. Go to one or the other following paths in File Explorer, Command Prompt, 
or PowerShell.

```powershell
%localappdata%
```

You will want to change the username to the username on your computer with 
this one.

```powershell
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default
```

2. Delete the ```Preferences``` file.
3. Open up Google Chrome and attempt to print again. If Preview loads with no issue. The issue is resolved.

