---
title: "Cisco: Switching to New DNS Server(s)"
date: "2022-07-06T14:37:19-05:00"
description: "Notes for switching over to a new name server on a Cisco switch."
tags: [ "Cisco Networking", "Cisco", "IOS" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Summary

This post contains some notes for switching a Cisco switch over to a
different DNS server. Specifically, I will be adding, removing, and
testing within the process of moving over to new DNS server
infrastructure.

In the case of switching over to another name server. Generally when you're
getting rid of infrastructure you need to remove the old configuration
so there aren't any future issues. Plus having a clean configuration is
always good.

## Adding The New DNS Server

Connect to the console or login remotely to the switch using SSH.
Listing the current running configuration to show what the DNS server is
set to now.

```sh
!
ip domain-name lab.example.com
ip name-server 192.168.1.50
!
```

Now that I'm SSHed into the switch I can go into the terminal
configuration prompt for the switch. I do this by executing the
following command.

```sh
configure terminal
```

The following command will add the new name server for name resolution.

```sh
ip name-server 192.168.1.51
```

This adds another name-server configuration entry in the running
configuration for the switch. As seen below. Though this server will 
be replacing the old one. I do this in the next series of steps within
this post. Good reason for removing the old entry is so the switch isn't
trying to use an IP for name resolution. This can cause timeouts with
DNS.

Though, this brings up another thing. Should this just be another
server. There is really no need to remove the old one. As long as the
other server is still up. It will provide redundancy for name resolution
on the switch.

```sh
!
ip domain-name lab.example.com
ip name-server 192.168.1.50
ip name-server 192.168.1.51
!
```

## Removing The Old DNS Server

In this case the new name server is replacing the one that currently
resides in the network. So it'll need to be removed. This can be done
using the following command.

```sh
no ip name-server 192.168.1.50
```

Checked the running configuration and it looks like the name server has
been switched over to the new infrastructure server IP address. The old
server has been removed.

```sh
!
ip domain-name lab.example.com
ip name-server 192.168.1.51
!
```

## Testing Configuration

Testing is always a good option. This command pings the infrastructure
server. Output will be shown next.

```sh
ping inf-01.lab.example.com
```

Based on the output. It looks like this is working. It resolves the
correct IP address of the server and it pings it.

```sh
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 192.168.0.100, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 1/4/11 ms
```

When that's configured, tested, and working. Copy the running 
configuration of the switch to the startup-config. If no one knows how 
to do this. There's a link for that.

- [Cisco Devices: Saving Running Config to Startup Config](https://info.n3s0.tech/2022/07/06/20220706143715)
