---
title: "Creating, Migrating, and Resetting Migrations on Laravel Framework"
date: "2022-03-06T15:29:50-05:00"
description: "Notes for creating, migrating, and resetting migrations in the Laravel Framework."
tags: [ "laravel", "php", "devel" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Overview

Something that I tend do is forget how to crate migrations in the
Laravel PHP Framework.

Migrations within Laravel act as version control for your applications
database. They can also act as a database agnostic method in which the
database schema can be configured.

This is also useful should there be the need to make a small change 
to a database for a database table.

## Migration Generation

Migrations can be built manually. But, there's actually a better method.
The ```artisan``` command can be used to create the migration file.
Which acts as a scaffold or template for the base for the file.

From this file, the following attributes for the database can be
configured.

- Table ID
- Column Names
- Column Datatypes
- Update tables
- Rename tables
- Drop tables
- Configuring foreign keys for tables
- Configure the charset, collation, and engine properties for the tables
  in MySQL.

Below is the Artisan command for generating a migration for the
database. 

```sh
php artisan make:migration create_migration_table
```

This will create a new migration file with the date and the 
migration name specified. These files will be located in the
relative path ```database/migrations``` in the project directory.

Below is an example of a migration file. This one was plulled from the
Laravel documentation for migrations. This is a migrations file created
for a table named ```flights```.

Configuring the migration consists of adding the appropriate code to
the ```up()``` and ```down()``` functions.

```php
<?php
 
use Illuminate\Database\Migrations\Migration;
use Illuminate\Database\Schema\Blueprint;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Schema;
 
return new class extends Migration
{
    /**
     * Run the migrations.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function up()
    {
        Schema::create('flights', function (Blueprint $table) {
            $table->id();
            $table->string('name');
            $table->string('airline');
            $table->timestamps();
        });
    }
 
    /**
     * Reverse the migrations.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function down()
    {
        Schema::drop('flights');
    }
};
```

## Performing Migrations

This section provides the command for migrating the database.

```sh
php artisan migrate
```

Should there be a need to check the migration status the following
command is available.

```sh
php artisan migrate:status
```

## Rollback Migrations

To sometimes there's a need to fix your changes but, resetting the
database isn't an option. To do this, the rollback command can be used.

```sh
php artisan migrate:rollback
```

There are also times where rolling back all of the database migrations
is required. The reset command will perform this action.

```sh
php artisan migrate:reset
```

## References

Below are references to the sites utilized to assist with creating this
article.

- [Laravel Docs - Database: Migrations](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/migrations)
