---
title: "Sysadmin Pain: When Percona and MySQL Community Repos aren't Synced"
date: "2022-06-03T11:31:14-05:00"
description: "Discussing some sysadmin pain when you update MySQL Community server and Percona Xtrabackup packages."
tags: [ "MySQL", "Sysadmin Pain" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

Just thought I'd talk a little bit about some Sysadmin pain that I've
come across. Might prove beneficial in the future. Not complaining. This
is more of a "don't do what I did" article. I'll probably provide more
of these as I run into issues.

Percona Xtrabackup is a wonderful tool for conducting backups on MySQL
servers. Especially when users come up with one off issues where they
weren't paying attention and found themselves deleting a mound of data
by accident. It's fine. That's what we have backups for right?

Though, what happens when your backups start failing because the
database is utilizing a mix of different repositories? Backups start
failing because Percona MySQL Xtrabackup is built for a specific version
of MySQL. I get it.

Backup status of something like this should probably be monitored. Which
thankfully it was in this case. This is how it was caught.

I've run into an issue a couple of times where the Percona Xtrabackup
repositories and the MySQL Community backup repositories are out of sync
on RHEL systems. This can prove problematic when I've conducted patching
and it takes a little while for Percona to catch up with MySQL Community
and visa versa.

Generally, in this case. When the packages are out of sync. The only
option is to wait because it's unsafe to rollback to the previous
version of MySQL. You just hop on the server here and there and check to
see if the packages are updated. OR, check the repositories to see which
version is being used. Within this time you could have multiple failed
backups. Sometimes for weeks to a month.

Vendor lock-in is a contributing factor of this problem. Percona has
their own MySQL Server packages and it seems like the expectation is to
utilize both Percona packages for your database needs.

One thing I would do if you have a mixed Percona Xtrabackup and MySQL
Community environment is to check to see if the updates are on the same
version before proceeding. If they are, exclude the package from the 
update. If they are. Fire away! I haven't checked Debian or Ubuntu 
systems to see if they have the same issue. But, that goes into another
thing I would like to touch up on.

But, to pull back from the next point. Here are some commands for
checking to verify that packages will stay in sync.

On CentOS 7 system. Check to see if the packages will be updated. If the
update shows the version as not the same. Then it should be excluded
from the update.

```sh
yum check-update
```

On CentOS 8/Stream and Fedora Server the following command can be issued
to look into if the repositories are in sync before updating. If they
aren't in sync. Exclude them. If they are. Go right ahead.

```
dnf check-update
```

If already updated and curious if backups are probably failing. One way
to indicate this is to check the mysql-community packages and the
percona-xtrabackup package versions. Just to determine if they're the
same. Backups will fail even if the minor version number of the
application isn't in sync.

CentOS 7 check current version for MySQL. This will provide the version
number in the second column.

```sh
yum list installed | grep -i mysql
```

CentOS 7 check current version for Xtrabackup. This will also provide
the version number in the second column.

```sh
yum list installed | grep -i xtrabackup
```

Same for MySQL  on most recent Fedora distros and Centos 8/Stream.

```sh
dnf list installed | grep -i msyql
```

Same for Xtrabackup on most recent Fedora distros and Centos 8/Stream.

```sh
dnf list installed | grep -i xtrabackup
```

Now to the next point. If I would have read the documentation or just 
installed Percona MySQL Server instead of mixing two separate 
repositories. I probably wouldn't be in this mess that I find myself in
from time to time.

Again. This is more of a shame on me for not paying attention to the
packages I'm updating MySQL to. This is also a shame on me for not
moving the database over to the locked in version of Percona MySQL when
the packages were finally in sync. We live and we learn. Hopefully this
was comprehensible so others can learn too.

Another option that probably needs to be explored is not using
Xtrabackup at all. Although, it's a wonderful product. Locking in with a
specific vendor creates a dependency that I don't want/need in my
environment. Percona is a wonderful company and they provide a lot of
great options for database software. But, they aren't the only database
solution out there. They also don't the only MySQL backup solution out
there.

I'll still experiment with their products and provide posts. But, I
think it's time to expand to different things and find a backup
solution that provides more flexibility regarding backups.
