---
title: "OpenBSD Initial Virtual Private Server Baseline"
date: 2022-12-03T22:46:04-06:00
description: "Notes acting as a baseline for OpenBSD servers hosted on VPS providers."
draft: false
tags: [ "OpenBSD", "Checklists", "Infrastructure" ]
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Summary

These are just some notes for common steps I perform after adding a
server to a Virtual Private Server provider. Intended to act as a
baseline. Documented so I have the steps for future use.

## Apply Updates

Update the packages on the server.

```sh
pkg_add -u
```

Apply any available patches.

```sh
syspatch
```

## Accounts

Update the password for root using the passwd(1) command. On VPS
providers they have one generated automatically.

```sh
passwd root
```

Create a group for the user.

```sh
groupadd tloftus
```

Create a new user on the system using the following command(s). I don't
use root unless I need to. Once it's created. I'll set the password for
the user using the passwd(1) command and generate the SSH keys for it.

```sh
useradd -d /home/username -m -c "Full Name" -g <username> \ 
  -G wheel -k /etc/skel -L staff -s /bin/ksh <username>
```

Configure doas. Generally I copy the base configuration from the
examples and put it in the default path.

```sh
cp /etc/examples/doas.conf /etc/doas.conf
```

I change the following line so wheel is permitted for elevated
privileges. 

```sh
permit persist :wheel
```

## SSH Configuration

For both the root and added user I generate the appropriate ssh(1) keys
while logged into both accounts using the following command.

```sh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
```

Edit the sshd_config file with the following values. Make sure to search
for them in the text editor. I generally expect to 

```
PermitRootLogin no
PasswordAuthentication no
PermitEmptyPasswords no
```

## Install Needed Applications

Some apps that I use on a regular basis. Just so the environment is the
same across all of my servers. Additional packages needed for the server
will be installed later.

```sh
pkg_add vim curl htop rsync
```

## Firewall Configuration

For any Internet server I configure my firewalls to block traffic by
default and then allow/pass traffic in/out after the fact.

The command below is the baseline configuration that comes with the
system and provides suitable defaults.

```sh
cp /etc/examples/pf.conf /etc/pf.conf
```

Below are the additional lines I add to the pf.conf(5) file.

```sh
block log all 
pass in log proto tcp to port 22
pass out log inet proto icmp icmp-type echoreq
pass out log proto udp to port { 53 123 }
pass out log proto udp to port 33433 >< 33626
pass out log proto tcp to port { 22 53 80 123 443 }
```

## Interface, Server Name, & DNS

Server name, DNS, and interface configurations.

General rule of thumb for me is to set the static interface for any
server unless I know DHCP is configured with the settings I need.

Below is baseline the configuration for```/etc/hostname.int```. Where
```.int``` represents the name of the interface being configured.

```sh
inet <IP Address> <Subnet> NONE description "Purpose (int name)"
up
```

Baseline configuration for ```/etc/mygate```. This is the gateway to the
Internet.

```sh
<Gateway IP Address>
```

Baseline configuration for ```/etc/myname```. Provides the full name of
the host.

```sh
hostname.domain.tld
```

Baseline configuration for ```/etc/hosts```. I generally add the IPv4
address and hostname to the server for this.

```sh
127.0.0.1	hostanme
::1		    hostname

10.238.164.240	hostname.domain.tld hostname
```

Baseline configuration for ```/etc/resolv.conf```. This kind of stuff
changes sometimes. At a minimum it has the following configuration.

```sh
nameserver 1.1.1.1
lookup file bind
``

## End Notes

These are notes for my base configuration for OpenBSD servers/machines
that are facing the Internet. As time goes on I'll be adding more things
that may assist in configuring and/or securing these in the future.

