---
title: "VMware ESXi 6.7: Changing DNS Servers Using esxcli"
date: "2022-07-06T14:37:13-05:00"
description: "Notes for changing from one DNS server to the other using esxcli on ESXi 6.7."
tags: [ "VMware ESXi 6.7", "VMware" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Summary

Needed to change DNS servers from one to the other within my lab on 
ESXi 6.7. Needed to do this because I've been isolating network 
resolution to my local network as opposed to pushing that traffic to 
the Internet itself.

Before I was using Cloudflare's DNS resolvers for name resolution. To 
add another layer DNS resolution is now done through local caches and 
resolvers. Traffic for name resolution is also blocked from going out 
to the Internet for every host on the network except for the local DNS 
resolver.

There is no set command for the DNS server list in the esxcli command.
So in order to configure a new DNS server you must either add it first 
or remove it before adding it.

## Checking Current DNS Server List

The following command will check the list of DNS servers configured on 
the system currently.

```sh
esxcli network dns server list
```

Below is the current output before moving on to the next section.

```sh
   DNSServers: 1.1.1.1
```

## Removing DNS Server

The command below will remove the 1.1.1.1 Cloudflare address from the 
DNS server list. Running the server list command would show an empty 
list of DNS servers.

```sh
esxcli network ip dns server remove --server="1.1.1.1"
```

## Adding DNS Server

This command will add the new INF server to the DNS server list.

```sh
esxcli network ip dns server add --server="192.168.0.50"
```

## Listing New DNS Server List

Time to list and see the new server list.

```sh
esxcli network ip dns server list
```

Looks like the new DNS server list is showing the name server that I
configured. Now it's time to test. Don't need to do anything extensive.
Just basic name resolution and call it a day.

```sh
   DNSServers: 192.168.0.50
```

## Testing

Just to make sure name resolution is successful and it's querying the
correct servers for it. This is done through the CLI on the ESXi server
where the changes were made.

```sh
nslookup lab-inf-01.lab.example.org
```

Below is the output. Looks like it's doing so without an issue. The
server resolved the IP address of the INF server within the lab 
network.

```sh
Server:         192.168.0.50
Address:        192.168.0.50:53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:   lab-inf-01.lab.example.org
Address: 192.168.0.50

Non-authoritative answer:
```
