---
title: "OpenBSD on BLANK"
date: "2022-03-17T15:23:23-05:00"
description: "Outlining an idea for various posts for installing and using OpenBSD on different hardware."
tags: [ "OpenBSD on BLANK", "OpenBSD" ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

This is another one of those discussions regarding content ideas. 

I found a series of posts that I liked and thought I'd join in on the 
fun. Joshua Stein has a fantastic series named OpenBSD on Laptops. This 
is where he focuses on making different laptops work on OpenBSD as 
opposed to one. To see if it will be of benefit. 

I will do the same. Though, this will be done on not just laptops. But, 
any hardware that I can find. Basically, if it can run Windows 10 or 
Linux. I will attempt to run OpenBSD on it. I may not be able to provide 
the same value. But, I'll know what has worked and what fixes I've used
in the future.

Note that none of this is intended to completely copy. But, to follow 
his lead. Need more of this stuff. I haven't seen seen a whole lot of
it for other laptops or at least not in the details that he's provided.

Outlined here will be what the posts will include.

- Hardware specs for the device:
	- Make/Model
	- Hardware Specifications
	- Ports
	- etc.
- Installation: Document the installation on the device. Doesn't have to be 
  in full. Just that it was successful, issues, etc. No dmesg output will be 
  provided. But I'll provide any issues that dmesg finds.
- Support log: If there are any issues. They'll be logged. May also log other 
  things relate to maintaining the device. 
- Third-Party Support Log: Will also document issues others have with the 
  same/similar device. Especially if that's what was used to fix it.
- Support Summary: Date in time as to what is working with notes on what
  hardware is working and what isn't.

Lot of this is included on his series. Although, there aren't going to be 
any pictures related to the hardware in mine. Will strictly be working on 
the hardware I own. Fixes will be documented as issues present themselves.

Resources that can be used to provide context for this article are below.

- [Joshua Stein's Blog](https://jcs.org/)

This may be something that I do with other OSs also. Just because I
believe in the value this data provides to people that are starting out
and even those vetted within the community. It's an awesome idea
overall. Kudos to him. He's part of what inspired these projects.

