---
title: "IP Addressing and Subnetting Workbook Version 2.0 - Student Version Notes"
date: "2022-03-04T16:23:53-05:00"
description: "Something from my school days for teaching subnetting I'll be working on as time passes."
tags: [ "subnetting", "networking" ]
draft: true
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Overview

My answers for the Student version of the IP Addressing and Subnetting
Workbook Version 2.0. I'll go through this again as opposed to posting 
the answers for the one I did in school. At this time, those are
missing. No idea where they're at.

If anyone would like to have a look. There is the link below. I also put
it in the references.

- [IP Addressing & Subnetting Workbook - Version 2.0 - Student Version](https://archive.org/details/SubnettingWorkbookVersion2/StudentsubnetworkbookV2/)

Though, if there is a process that the workbook explains. I those will
be notated. Consider this though. Everyone has a different way for
everything. Subnet calculations aren't the same for everybody who does
them. So don't take this as the only way. If it works for you. Great! If
it doesn't. Look for a method that best suites you.

If you plan on going into IT or anything related to a career in IT. I
would recommend that you learn subnetting. It's very useful for
understanding and troubleshooting networks.

This will probably be coupled with my notes on RFC 1918. Considering
some of those concepts are covered there. I'll provide it in the
reference section.

## IP Address and Subnetting Reference

Some notes on the IP Address and subnet classes. This is more of a
reference for the default subnet masks and classes that make up the
IP ranges that make up the Private Address space.

### IP Address Classes

List of network ranges designated to their class ID.

| Class ID | Address Range | Example |
|:--------:|:-------------:|:-------:|
| A | 1 - 127 | 10.0.0.0 |
| B | 128 - 191 | 172.16.0.0 |
| C | 192 - 223 | 192.168.0.0 |
| D | 224 - 239 | 224.0.0.0 |
| E | 240 - 155 | 240.0.0.0 |

Some notes regarding the address classes.

- Class A:
  - Network 127.0.0.0 is reserved for either loopback or internal
    testing.
  - Leading bit pattern: 0
  - Mask: Network.Host.Host.Host
- Class B:
  - Leading bit pattern: 10
  - Mask: Network.Network.Host.Host
- Class C:
  - Reserved for Multicast.
- Class E:
  - Reserved for experimental and research use.

### Private Address Space

IP ranges for the private address space. These are IP addresses that
aren't routeable over the Internet. Designated for internal network use
specifically.

| Class ID | Address Space |
|:---------:|:--------------:|
| A | 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255 |
| B | 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255 |
| C | 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255 |

### Default Subnet Masks

Below is a table of the default subnet mask for each subnet class. 

| Class | Subnet Mask |
|:------:|:-------------:|
| A | 255.0.0.0 |
| B | 255.255.0.0 |
| C | 255.255.255.0 |

### Binary To Decimal Conversion

This section provides my notes on the Binary to Decimal Conversion
section of this workbook. There is a table of 8-bits of ones and zeros.

The Least Significant Bit (LSB) is the furthest digit on the right. The
Most Significant Bit (MSB) is on the far left.

With an 8-bit number, the LSB starts with one. The one then doubles as a
two. Then the two doubles as a four. So on and so forth. All the way up
to 128 and doesn't continue. Technically the 8-bit number starts from
an index of 0 and ends at 7. 

The process involves the following.

1. Start from the LSB and look down the line of 0s and 1s. Every 1 in
   the row becomes that number. Every 0 is ignored. All the way down to
   the end where the MSB is.
2. Add up the 1s in the row from the LSB/right to the MSB/left.

After you add up all of the 1s in the row. You're done. As long as
you've added up from the LSB to the MSB and you know simple addition.
You should have the correct answer.

With that explanation. I will go through the workbook as time goes on
and complete all of the items in the ```Binary To Decimal Conversion```
section. Below is the table.

#### Binary To Decimal Conversion - Answers

| 128 | 64 | 32 | 16 | 8 | 4 | 2 | 1 | Answer |
|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:---:|:--:|:---:|:--------:|
| 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 146 |
| 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 119 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 255 |
| 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 197 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 246|
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 19 |
| 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 129 |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 49 |
| 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 120 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 240 |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 59 |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 7 |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 27 |
| 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 170 |
| 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 111 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 248 |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 32 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 85 |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 62 |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 237 |
| 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 192 |

## References

- [IP Addressing and Subnetting Workbook - Version 2.0 - Student Version](https://archive.org/details/SubnettingWorkbookVersion2/StudentsubnetworkbookV2/)
