---
title: "Showing Wireless Profile Keys In Plain Text Through CLI/PowerShell"
date: "2022-02-23T16:18:30-05:00"
description: "Notes for displaying wireless profiles and their keys in plain text."
draft: false
tags: [ "windows" ]
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Summary
---

Just remembered something that I had to do a while back where I needed 
to access a wireless network and I didn't know the Key for it. I didn't 
know the wireless key and the person I was requesting access from didn't 
know either or forgot.

Luckily, they had a machine that had a Windows operating system installed. 
Sure, I could crack the PSK for the wireless. But, why make it hard 
when the Windows machine was connected to the wireless. This method is generally
less painful.

The primary method that I'll be showing is using the ```netsh``` command.

Through this article I'll provide some commands for future reference for the 
benefit of my future self and others. In my research, I may even find some other 
methods a long the way.

In order to execute these commands effectively. Access to an Administrative 
PowerShell or Cmd shell is required.

Would also like to note that before you do this, you should probably obain permission 
of the owner of the network and the computer.

## Showing Wireless Key Using NETSH
---

First step to this is opening an Administrator PowerShell or Cmd prompt. Then 
typing in the following command. This will display all of the available profiles 
that the computer has connected to.

```powershell
netsh wlan show profiles
```

Below is the output for the wireless networks that the computer has connected to. 
In the "User Profiles" section, the SSIDs or Wifi names are available for viewing. 
Just need to choose which one that's available for connection. If you trust it, that is.

```powershell
Profiles on interface Wi-Fi:

Group policy profiles (read only)
---------------------------------
    <None>

User Profiles
-------------
    All User Profile        : Pretty fly for a Wifi
    All User Profile        : NETGEAR
    All User Profile        : Bit Dumpster
```

Type out the following command. This runs the netsh command and looks for the 
wireless profile that is the same as the name that you chose using the ```name```
parameter. This will then display the PSK or Key in clear text using the ```key```
paramether.

```powershell
netsh wlan show profile name="SSID/WirelessName" key=clear
```

Below would be the expected output for a wireless network ```Pretty fly for a Wifi```.
This is merely here to serve as a concept. Not all results will be the same.

In the "Security settings" section of the output you'll see something called "Key Content" 
this is where the PSK or "Password" would be for the wireless network you're attempting to 
connect to. In this case, it's ```<KEY WILL BE HERE>```.

```powershell
Profile Pretty fly for a wifi on interface Wi-Fi:
======================================================================

....
Connectivity settings
---------------------
    Number of SSIDs     : 1
    SSID Name           : ""
    Network Type        : Infrastructure
    Radio Type          : [ Any Radio Type ]
    Vendor extension    : Note Present

Security Settings
-----------------
    Authentication     : WPA2-Personal
    Cipher             : CCMP
    Authentication     : WPA2-Personal
    Cipher             : Unknown
    Security Key       : Present
    Key Content        : <KEY WILL BE HERE>
```

That should wrap that one up. If I find any other mothods, I'll make sure to update this post.

