---
title: "Exchange 2013: Configuring Calendar Permissions"
date: "2022-06-24T10:23:04-05:00"
description: "Notes on configuring calendar permissions in Exchange 2013."
tags: [ "exchange", "windows",  ]
draft: false
type: post
showTableOfContents: true
---

## Overview

This article will provide a brief overview on how to Get, Add, and Set 
Calendar permissions in Microsoft Exchange 2013. If you would like a 
reference to an overview of what the permissions do, I have referenced 
a cheat sheet below for you.

- [Microsoft Exchange 2013 - Calendar Permissions Reference](#)

This article will mostly focus on doing this through the Exchange 
Management Shell. PowerShell Cmdlets used in this article can be found 
below. It will give you some brief commands that you can use to set the 
permissions. But, it will not go into to much detail on what the Cmdlets 
will do.

- Get-MailboxFolderPermission
  - Allows you to view folder-level permissions for a folder or a specific 
    user's permissions for a folder.
- Add-MailboxFolderPermission
  - Used to manage folder-level permissions for all folders within a 
    user's mailbox.
- Set-MailboxFolderPermission

In this article I will be targeting calendar permissions for user accounts. 
Yes, a user should be able to grant permissions for their calendar to 
another user. But, if you can do this and you're requested to. You can 
probably just do it and finish up your request.

## Getting Calendar Permissions

Getting calendar permissions in EMS is pretty simple. You just need to 
know the following information.

1. The user Identity
2. Folder path. (In this case :\Calendar)

Below is the syntax for the command. This will list all users assigned 
access right to the Calendar folder for the user. It will also display 
the folder name. Please replace ```USERNAME``` with the username of 
the user whos permissions you're checking.

```PowerShell
Get-MailboxFolderPermission -Identity USERNAME:\Calendar
```

## Adding Calendar Permissions

This section provides the command for adding calendar permissions to an
Exchange mailbox using Exchange Management Shell.

```powershell
Add-MailboxFolderPermission -Identity USERNAME:\Calendar -User USERNAME -AccessRights <Permission>
```

## Editing Calendar Permissions

This section provides the command for editing calendar permissions in
an Exchange using the Exchange Managment Shell.

```powershell
Set-MailboxFolderPermission -Identity USERNAME:\Calendar -User USERNAME -AccessRights PERMISSION
```

## Conclusion

There are more examples to provide. I will do so over time as I test
these. References have been provided for more reading.

## References

Provides references for this article for further reading.

- [Get-MailboxFolderPermission](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/exchange/get-mailboxfolderpermission?view=exchange-ps)
- [Add-MailboxFolderPermission](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/exchange/add-mailboxfolderpermission?view=exchange-ps)
- [Set-MailboxFolderPermission](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/exchange/set-mailboxfolderpermission?view=exchange-ps)
