---
title: "Deploying Your Hugo Blog Development Server Using Podman/Docker Compose"
date: 2023-10-13T11:05:44-05:00
description: "Some workflow updates for the blog. A simple Hugo Podman/Docker container for writting content with docker/podman-compose."
draft: false
tags: [ "general", "hugo", "podman", "docker" ]
type: post
---

Thought that I'd play a little bit with the workflow of this site.
Perhaps it will be useful to others. Although installing Hugo extended
isn't difficult. I've needed an environment that's suitable for testing
and reviewing before I deploy to the world.

Although Docker is still relevant to the world and I'll still learn it.
Ever since they started asking for more money. I shy away 
from it and started poking more at Podman. With that. There's also 
podman-compose. Which is equally as effective at getting the job done. 
I haven't run into a lot of issues with it other then some networking 
hiccups that I will discuss in a later post. Nothing major. Just
annoying.

For the review portion of the workflow I will be utilizing podman/docker
with podman/docker-compose. Which will make it easier because I won't be
limited to installing the software on every machine I get on. Just pull
the container and allow it to do the work for me.

Eventually I would like to noodle the creation of new posts and make
that a little more streamline. Another consideration is how to deploy to
production should I decide to host it in a different manner. At this
time, the bare minimum dev configuration is setup for the container.

Below is the Dockerfile used for deploying the dev container. The
Dockerfile will utilize klakegg's hugo:ext-alpine image and copy the
entire directory into the src directory of the container.

```Dockerfile
FROM klakegg/hugo:ext-alpine
COPY . /src
```

Below is the docker-compose.yml file used for deploying the dev
container. This will build a service named server that utilizes the
klakegg/hugo:ext-alpine image, execute the hugo server command with a
poll of 700ms, add a volume as the current working directory, and set
the port to 1313.

```yaml
version: 3
services:
  server:
    image: klakegg/hugo:ext-alpine
    command: server --poll 700ms
    volumes:
      - ".:/src"
    ports:
      - "1313:1313"
```

It's very simple. Just the way I like it. Though, I have yet to test it
on a fresh environment. Something that I would also like to note. To
those who have never used docker-compose or podman-compose. They both
need to see the compose file. 

After cloning the project there are a few commands that need to be
executed before seeing the site locally. This command will bring up the
container. To just deploy it without needing to interact with the
container. Add the ```-d``` flag to deploy it.

```sh
podman-compose up
```

To tear down the stack. Execute the following command.

```sh
podman-compose down
```

With that. I think that covers the fun for this today. If I miss
anything I'll put an update on this. But, I think the next steps for
this are to actually hone a production build so I can comfortably deploy
this anywhere. 
