---
title: "Updating & Upgrading OpenBSD"
date: 2023-07-20T17:34:03-06:00
description: "Notes/reference for updating/upgrading OpenBSD machines."
draft: false
tags: [ "obsd"  ]
type: post
---

These are some notes for updating and upgrading OpenBSD machines just in
case I need them. I will make sure to update this as often as possible
and provide the reference articles. Along with man pages.

If there are other posts I create for unconventional update methods.
I'll provide those in the references. 

To the point. This post discusses updating the following.

- Base operating system
- System packages

Any additions I've missed? Say the word.

Reminder: All commands in this post will need to be executed as super
user or root.

## Update Base System Using syspatch(8)

This command is used to fetch, verify, and install patches/updates to the base
system. It will do all of this when it finds missing patches. Once it
applies the new patches. Rebooting will load the new kernel with it's
newness.

One thing to note is this command only runs on release versions of
OpenBSD. It will not run on current. 

```sh
syspatch
```

To list available patches that need to be applied. The -c flag can be
used.

```sh
syspatch -c
```

To revert the most recent installed patch. The following command can be
used.

```sh
syspatch -r
```

## Update Installed Packages Using pkg_add(1)

The pkg_add(1) command is used to install packages and their
depenencies. Another capability that it has is updating the installed
packages on the system.

The -u flag is used to update the installed packages and their
dependencies. It will update all packages on the system if one isn't
specified.

```sh
pkg_add -u
```

To update only one installed package. It's name can be specified.

```sh
pkg_add -u <package_name>
```

One thing that is worth noting when updating packages on OpenBSD
systems. When updated there may be some instructions listed when/after
the package has been updated. Please review these to make sure it
doesn't break your app configuration.

## Reference

- [syspatch(8)]()
- [pkg_add(1)]()
