---
title: "Backup & Restore MySQL Using MySQL Dump"
date: 2023-11-13T14:43:22-05:00
summary: "Notes for doing a backup and restore with the mysqldump command."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["sysadmin"]
---

Little post because I caught myself looking this up a little more then I
usually do. Thought this would be a good time to jot some things down
for it.

There is a useful command for backing up your mysql databases called
mysqldump. This will pull all of the entries from the database and
generate a little script for use. You specify the database and away you
go.

This can also be useful for performing camparisons on previous backups
to see what data is missing. If you perform regular backups that is.

To dump a database the following command will be used. This will create
a script named mydatabase.sql so it can be run during restore.

The following option will ask for a password prompt to sign into.

```sh
mysqldump -u root -p mydatabase > mydatabase.sql
```

On Ubuntu systems the following command can be entered to dump the
database as the root user with no password prompt. This is if the root
password has been saved in the .my.cnf file.

```sh
mysqldump -u root mydatabase > mydatabase.sql
```

To restore the database. The following command needs to be run. This
will execute the mydatabase.sql script. This will update the database
with the same tables and table entries as the backed up server.

```sh
mysql -u root -p mydatabase < mydatabase.sql
```

This is probably the basic use case for this method. It's extremely
useful during migrations. Other use cases will probably come up in the
future. Just wanted to provide this.
