---
title: "Viewing A Users MySQL Permissions (GRANTS)"
date: 2024-04-03T09:44:02+06:00
summary: "Notes for viewing MySQL grants from MySQL Client."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["dbadmin"]
---

## Summary
---

Making a quick post about viewing grants in MySQL. This can be useful if
you ever need to review or briefly audit access for users in MySQL.

## Showing GRANTS
---

Below is a general syntax for reviewing permissions for a specific user
on a specific host.

```sql
SHOW GRANTS FOR '<username>';
```

or

```sql
SHOW GRANTS FOR '<username>'@'<hostname>';
```

Like with this example. I'm looking at the grants for the user db-admin.
Who is expected to access the database from the local server.

```sql
SHOW GRANTS FOR 'db-admin'@'localhost';
```

Based on the output. We can determine that the db-admin user can at
lease login because they have the USAGE grant for all databases and
tables; indicated by *.* (database.table). This privilege is given to
users when they're created and it's just another way of saying, they can
login. But, they cant really do anything of significance.

In the second line we see that the same user has access to ALL
privileges on the testdatabase2 database and all of its tables. This
means that it can do just about anything that it wants to that database
and the tables in it. Though, this is with the exception to a few key
things like granting privileges that you have on the databse. During
account creation if the user was created with GRANT OPTION. This would
be a different story.

The last section shows that the db-admin user has the following
permissions on the testdb1 database and all of it's tables.

- SELECT: Enabled rows to be referenced from tables in the database.
- INSERT: Allows rows and data to be added to tables in the database.
- DELETE: Allows rows and data to be removed from tables in the
  database.

```sql
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Grants for db-admin@localhost                                         |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| GRANT USAGE ON *.* TO `db-admin`@`localhost`                          |
| GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `testdatabase2`.* TO `db-admin`@`localhost`   |
| GRANT SELECT, INSERT, DELETE ON `testdb1`.* TO `db-admin`@`localhost` |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Reference
---

- [MySQL 8.0 Reference Manual - Privileges Provided by MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/privileges-provided.html)
