---
title: "Railway Management System - MK 1"
date: 2024-03-09T10:33:00-05:00
description: "A little database design project I will be working on."
draft: true
tags: [ "Database Design" ]
type: post
---

## Overview

Needed another project. So I'm buidling a railway management system
database. I will make sure to keep it simple with this revision and I'll
post the SQL scripts in a GitHub repository that I'll link later. Down
the road I hope to develop a front end for its design to make it more
user friendly. Its link will also be added to this post.

## Scenario

Something that may help this all make sense is an overall scenario.

## Requirements

A railway system, which needs to model the following:

- Stations
- Tracks and connecting stations. You can assume for simplicity that 
  only one track exists between any two stations. All the tracks put 
  together to form a graph.
- Trains, with an ID and a name.
- Train schedules recording what time a train passes through each 
  station on its route.

You can assume for simplicity that each train reaches its destination 
on the same day and that every train runs every day. Also, for simplicity, 
assume that for each train, for each station on its route, you store.

- Time in.
- Timeout (same as time in if it does not stop).
- A sequence number so the stations in the route of a 
  train can be ordered by sequence number.

Passenger booking consisting of train, date, from-station, to 
station, coach, seat and passenger name.

### Additions

## Tables

stations

id PK
name string

tracks

id PK
name string

trains

id PK
name string
model FK

train_models

id PK
make string
model string

schedules

id PK
train_id FK
start_time datetime
end_time datetime

passengers

id PK
ticket_no int
first_name string
last_name string
booking_date datetime
