---
title: "You Lost Your Mouse Pointer In Windows 11"
date: 2024-09-19T14:40:01+06:00
summary: "Some fun with TCP Dump."
draft: false
hidden: false
externalURL: false
showDate: true
showModDate: true
showReadingTime: true
showTags: true
showPagination: true
tags: ["sysadmin", "windows 11"]
---

## Summary
---

Recently came accross a weird issue where in Windows 11 the mouse
pointer wasn't visible on a laptop. These were my troubleshooting steps 
to fix it.

In case no one wants to look at the process I followed. This issue was 
resolved by reinstalling the touchpad driver for the laptop and rebooting.

## Troubleshooting

First step was to make sure the drivers were good. I checked in Device 
Manager and there was a splat on the touchpad driver. The computer
needed updates so I decided to update it to see if that would fix it.
But, it did not.

Then I tried to update the driver through Windows Update and that didn't 
work.

Eventually I got tired of using the keyboard to navigate everything. So,
I get a wired mouse. Mouse pointer popped up just fine. Which ruled out
this issue being related to any OS configuration.

I recall thinking that it was safe to say this was probaly a corrupt driver
from a recent update to Windows. I should have checked the laptops C: drive
to see if it's been recently upgraded from Windows 10 without the owner's 
knowledge.

We're veering off topic.

So, with this in mind and my recently aquired mouse pointer. I went to the 
Dell website and reinstalled the touchpad driver and rebooted.

Once this was complete. The wired mouse worked. But, so did the touchpad.

Timmy: 1 - Laptop: 0

## Solution
---

This issue was resolved by reinstalling the touchpad driver for the
laptop and rebooting it.